Contribute to OpenFurry
=======================

Thank you for your interest in contributing to OpenFurry, the open-source social
and art community for furries of all types.  There are many ways in which you
can contribute, and only a few guidelines to follow.  Read on for more info!

First, a guideline for everyone
-------------------------------

Please, make sure you understand the concepts behind open-source and the license
that OpenFurry uses, the Affero GNU General Public License v.3.  All work on
OpenFurry is released under this license - if you contribute to this project,
then all the work you contribute will be licensed under the AGPL.  What this
means is that you're donating time, energy, and knowledge to the project in
order to benefit all of the other users and developers.  This does not mean that
we're taking your work - the work is certainly attributed to you.  This also
does not mean that we're taking your work for granted - we appreciate everything
that comes our way!  There is no task too small for someone to do if it helps
us out!

Read more about the AGPL at [GNU's licensing page](http://gnu.org/licenses) if
you have any questions specifically about what the AGPL means for you, or check
out [The Open Source Initiative](http://opensource.org) to learn more about 
open source and you.

What needs doing
----------------

### Coding

If you are versed in the ways of Groovy and Grails, you are welcome to help us
out by contributing your knowledge to the project, so long as you follow the
coding guidelines set forth later in this document.

### Compliance

If coding isn't your strong point, but you can still understand some of the
concepts behind programming, you can help out with the code-base by assuring
that it all follows the coding guidelines set down later on.

### Documentation

Again, if you can understand the code but don't really want to write any
yourself, helping us out with documentation would be much appreciated.  Although
it's not yet set up properly, documentation for OpenFurry will be housed at the
MJS Services [Atlassian Confluence instance](http://atl.mjs-svc.com:8090).

### Writing

OpenFurry includes a method for displaying flatpages - that is, pages that just
contain information and aren't dynamic, in the sense that the information is
relatively static, even though they're stored in the database.  These pages are
stored as [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/), so you don't
need to know anything about programming at all in order to write for us.

There will be a list of pages that need to be written available soon, but in the
mean time, read up on Markdown to see how to use it.

### Internationalization

One of the goals of OpenFurry is to be as fully internationalized as possible;
however, we can't afford to hire translators, so if you want to see OpenFurry
in your own language (the site, that is; not the submissions), this is easily
done.  All that is required is a knowledge of English and your primary language.
The text for I18N is stored in a simple-to-understand properties format - for
example, if you see in the English file:

    openfurry.welcome=Welcome to OpenFurry!

You can add the following to the French file:

    openfurry.welcome=Bienvenue à OpenFurry!

The more languages in which OpenFurry is internationalized, the more accessible
it is to those in our community!

### Adding content

This may seem like a no-brainer.  However, more than just uploading files is
necessary with a site like OpenFurry.  If you've got a sense for color, you can
contribute a theme that will be publicly available to the site's users, and
could be voted up to be the default theme.  Once the site is up and running, the
theme builder will be available for you to work your magic!

In addition to themes, OpenFurry includes a system for submitting bugs,
improvements, and feature requests to be considered by the programmers.  If you
notice something broken, want to see something improved, or just plain want more
to do with the site, feel free to submit an issue!  Can't think of anything off
the top of your head to change?  Take a look in the issues list and see if
there's anything you agree with there, and vote on the issue.  The more votes an
issue gets, the more likely it is to be elevated and acted upon.

Coding Guidelines
-----------------

### Indenting

Indent to four spaces.  IDEs for Groovy and text editors worth their salt should
have an option for setting the tab size.  In vim (which I use), that is done
with the following command in ~/.vimrc

    set ts=4 sts=4 sw=4 et

You can have vim do that for the files used in OpenFurry automatically with the
following:

    if has("autocmd")
      autocmd FileType gsp,groovy,properties
      \ set ts=4 sts=4 sw=4 et
      autocmd BufNewFile,BufRead *.mkd
      \ set ts=4 sts=4 sw=4 et
    endif

That's right, four spaces for everything - GSPs, Groovy, properties, and markdown.  If you contribute Java or JSPs, those too!

Emacs?  You're on your own, sorry! :o)  Unless someone can contribute to this document...

### Parentheses

Although Groovy is lenient on parantheses, try to use them for function calls and the like.  I.e.: instead of

    response.sendError 404

do

    response.sendError(404)

### Brackets and indenting

Keep brackets on the same line as function declarations, with a space separating
arguments and bracket.  I.e.: instead of

    def doSomething(String arg)
    {

do

    def doSomething(String arg) {

The same holds true for if-statements.  For else statements, keep brackets on
the same line.  I.e.: instead of

    }
    else {

do

    } else {

Indent all blocks.  I.e.: instead of

    def critera = { and {
        eq('foo', bar)
	    le('baz', dimble)
    }}

do

    def criteria = {
        and {
	        eq('foo', bar)
	        le('baz', dimble)
	    }
    }

With the following exceptions:

* Javascript
  
  You can have closures (unnamed functions) inside arguments be on the same
line.  I.e.:

    $('#foo').click(function() {
        // do something
    });

* GSP (Groovy Server Pages)

  You should indent block tags, but not their insides.  I.e: instead of

    <ul>
        <g:each in="${list}">
            <li>${it}</li>
        </g:each>
    </ul>

do

    <ul>
        <g:each in="${list}">
	    <li>${it}</li>
	    </g:each>
    </ul>

or

    <ul>
    <g:each in="${list}">
	    <li>${it}</li>
    </g:each>
    </ul>

This is to preserve the indentation of HTML output for the reason of making it
easier to debug nesting problems.

### Commenting

Comment your code liberally, but don't clutter it.  If, with syntax
highlighting, you notice more blue, gray, or whatever color comments are, you
can tone it down a little, but if you have trouble parsing your own code on
sight, chances are, people are going to have a hard time parsing it after ten
minutes, and don't be afraid of line breaks.  I.e.: instead of

    ui.draggable.find('input').attr('value' $(this).parent().attr('value'));

do

    ui.draggable.find('input').attr(   // Find the hidden input and
        'value',                       // set the value attribute
	    $(this).parent().attr('value') // to the value attribute of the parent
    );

#### Line lengths

If a line gets horrendously long, don't be afraid to break it.  Good places to
break are argument lists (as above) or chained commands.  I.e.: instead of

    ui.draggable.find('.rank').html("Rank: " + $(this).parent().attr('value')).show();

do

    ui.draggable.find('rank')
        .html("Rank: " + $(this).parent().attr('value'))
	    .show();

That said, 80 characters is a good max-length for a line - it works the best
with text editors and source-code displays in browsers - but if you have to go
over, you have to go over.

### Don't push broken builds

Or try not to, at least.  The git repo is tied in with an instance of Bamboo, a
continuous integration system.  This means that, every time you push a broken 
build, it shows!  Pushing a broken build will mean an automatic code-review.  If
you can't finish the task to the point of getting it to compile.. well, okay.  
You'll have to live with the code review.  Even so, try to keep your commits 
working!

I've run into this problem with grails before, so please make sure you run
`grails test-app -clean` rather than just `grails test-app`.  Things get cached
and the cached versions work with what you wrote, but not necessarily the un-
cached versions!  (By the way, Bamboo runs `test-app`, so if you want to see
what will happen when the CI system gets ahold of your code, that's what.)

### Misc.

* Use blank lines when they clarify (between functions, before comments, etc)
* Comment before the fact (explain what the _following_ line does)
* Use camel case (listAllByType, not list_all_by_type)
* Use descriptive identifiers (no `q` or `r`; but you can use `i`/`j` or `x` and
`y` for iterating over things or working with 2D arrays respectively)
* DRY - Don't Repeat Yourself!  (If you do something over and over in a 
controller, maybe it belongs in a service)
* Use comments well (`// total hack here` means very little; explain what and
why it's a hack)
* Attribute your work at the top of the file if you must; don't attribute
snippets (i.e.: no initials in comments, just put your name at the top)
* Groovy-style returns are okay (i.e.: last line of the method), and don't worry
about parentheses when using `return`.
* Internationalize every string (i.e.: not `<th>Title</th>`, but `<th><g:message
code="openfurry.blah.title" default="Title" /></th>` - always use defaults)
* When in doubt, this section has a lot in common with Haiku's programming and
human interface guildelines.  Check them out to see more info than is presented
here:
  + [Coding guidelines](http://www.haiku-os.org/development/coding-guidelines)
  + [Human Interface Guidelines](http://api.haiku-os.org/HIG/)
